Refactoring tutorial (#440)
neo4j/docs-getting-started: modules/ROOT/pages/data-modeling/tutorial-refactoring.adoc

If you want to retrieve all movies in English, write:

[source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)
WHERE 'English' IN m.languages
RETURN m.title
--

The result for this query and answer for the question is the movies "Apollo 13", "Sleepless in Seattle", and "Hoffa":

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header",cols="1"]
|===
| m.title 

| "Apollo 13"
| "Sleepless in Seattle"
| "Hoffa"
|===

What this query does is retrieve all `Movie` nodes and then test whether the `languages` property contains the value `English`.
This isn't wrong, but as the graph scales, you may encounter two issues:

* *In order to perform the query, all `Movie` nodes must be retrieved* -> As the graph scales, the performance of a similar query can be dimished by the way you modeled your data.
* *The name of the language is duplicated in many `Movie` nodes (in this case, all of them)* -> If many nodes share a same property value, it could be a sign that this property value could instead become a new entity, like a node or a relationship, for example.

> The answer for these issues is, therefore, to refactor the property `languages` into a node and connect it to the `Movie` nodes with a new relationship.

Reviewer: I was thinking of a data model diagram to illustrate the concept
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/456d16e8-5d32-43f6-b5c7-c6c09f0b7282)

Then the instance model in the next section would put it into practice on the example data

> == Eliminating duplicated data

Author: Maybe "eliminating duplication"?

> == Eliminating duplicated data

Reviewer: AFAIU, this section moves the languages from properties to dedicated nodes. There is no duplication involved, so I find it a bit confusing.

> == Eliminating duplicated data

Reviewer: fine. I didn't read it that way at first, but now that makes sense to me

In order to refactor the node property `languages` into a node, you need to:

. link:{docs-home}/cypher-manual/current/clauses/unwind/[`UNWIND`] the `languages` property from the `Movie` node and turn their entries into new `Language` nodes:
+
[source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)
UNWIND m.languages AS language
WITH  language, collect(m) AS movies
MERGE (l:Language {name:language})
--

. Create the `IN_LANGUAGE` relationship to connect the `Movie` nodes to their respective `Language` nodes:
+
[source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)

> MATCH (l:Language)

Author: I tested this again and it worked? 
This is an introductory tutorial so I think we should try to be very simple with the queries and not worry so much about bigger graphs. We could add a note about this for future reference for the user, but this is supposed to be content for beginners so using more advanced and layered queries could be confusing. We can revisit this in another more advanced refactoring tutorial in the future, though. What do you think?

[source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN_1995]-(m:Movie)
WHERE p.name = 'Tom Hanks'
RETURN m.title AS Movie
--

This way, the query won't need to retrieve all the `Movie` nodes connected to Tom Hanks and read all their `m.released` properties, but only retrieve the title of those that are connected with Tom Hanks by the specific relationship `ACTED_IN_1995`.
You can therefore avoid overfetching and improve query performance.

== Retest the graph

After you have refactored the graph, you should revisit all queries for your xref:data-modeling/tutorial-data-modeling.adoc#_define_the_use_case[use cases].
Here is a list:

[options=header,cols="1,1a"]
|===

| Use case
| Query example

| Which people acted in a movie?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie {title:'Hoffa'})
RETURN p
--

| Which person directed a movie?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person)-[:DIRECTED]->(m:Movie {title:'Hoffa'})
RETURN p
--

| Which movies did a person act in?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person {name:'Tom Hanks'})-[:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie)
RETURN m
--

> | How many users rated a movie?

Reviewer: A more 'graphy' alternative could be 
```
MATCH (m:Movie)
WHERE m.title = 'Apollo 13'
RETURN COUNT {(:User)-[:RATED]->(m)} AS `Number of reviewers`
```

For example, for the use case "Which movies are in English?":

[options=header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===

| Old query
| Query after refactoring

| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)
WHERE m.languages = 'English'
RETURN m.title as Movie in English
--
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)-[:IN_LANGUAGE]->(l:Language)
WHERE l.name = 'English'
RETURN m.title as Movie in English
--

|===

=== Performance check

When testing on a real application and, especially with a fully-scaled graph, you can also profile the new queries to see if it improves performance. 
On a small instance model such as the example in this tutorial, you will not see significant improvements, but you may see differences in the number of rows retrieved.

As an example, if you want to see the number of database hits for a query to retrieve all `Person` nodes, you need to add the clause link:{docs-home}/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/#profile-and-explain[`PROFILE`] before it:

[source,cypher]
--
PROFILE MATCH (n:Person)
RETURN n
--

This should be the result:

> image::query-plan.png[Screenshot of Browser featuring a query plan that shows the number of database hits when you retrieve all person nodes,400,400,role=popup]

Reviewer: the data on the screenshot looks suspicious
I would not expect to have `0 rows` in the execution pipeline, unless the DB is empty

RETURN COUNT {(:User)-[:RATED]->(m)} AS `Number of reviewers`
--

| Who was the youngest person to act in a movie?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]-(m:Movie)
WHERE m.title = 'Hoffa'
RETURN  p.name AS Actor, p.born as `Year Born` ORDER BY p.born DESC LIMIT 1
--

| Which role did a person play in a movie?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person {name:'Tom Hanks'})-[a:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie {title: 'Apollo 13'})
RETURN a.roles
--

| Which is the highest rated movie in a particular year according to imDB?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)
WHERE m.released STARTS WITH '1995'
RETURN  m.title as Movie, m.imdbRating as Rating ORDER BY m.imdbRating DESC LIMIT 1
--

| Which drama movies did an actor act in?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]-(m:Movie)
WHERE p.name = 'Tom Hanks' AND
'Drama' IN m.genres
RETURN m.title AS Movie
--

| Which users gave a movie a rating of 5?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (u:User)-[r:RATED]-(m:Movie)
WHERE m.title = 'Apollo 13' AND
r.rating = 5
RETURN u.name as Reviewer
--

| Which movies are in English?
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)
WHERE m.languages = 'English'
RETURN m.title as Movie in English
--

|===

> With this considered, you should now determine if any of the queries need to be rewritten to take advantage of the refactoring and rewrite them when applicable.
> For example, for the use case "Which movies are in English?":

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As described earlier, the last query can benefit from being rewritten after refactoring:
```

[options=header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===

| Old query
| Query after refactoring

| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)
WHERE m.languages = 'English'
RETURN m.title as Movie in English
--
| [source,cypher]
--
MATCH (m:Movie)-[:IN_LANGUAGE]->(l:Language)
WHERE l.name = 'English'
RETURN m.title as Movie in English
--
|===

=== Performance check

When testing on a real application and, especially with a fully-scaled graph, you can also profile the new queries to see if it improves performance. 
On a small instance model such as the example in this tutorial, you will not see significant improvements, but you may see differences in the number of rows retrieved.

As an example, if you want to see the number of database hits for a query to retrieve all `Person` nodes, you need to add the clause link:{docs-home}/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/#profile-and-explain[`PROFILE`] before it:

[source,cypher]
--
PROFILE MATCH (n:Person)
RETURN n
--

> This should be the result:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the result:
```

image::query-plan.svg[Screenshot of Neo4j Aura featuring a query plan that shows the number of database hits when you retrieve all person nodes,400,400,role=popup]

> You can read more advanced explanation on query tunning and planning at link:{docs-home}/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/[Cypher manual -> Execution plans and query tuning].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find more detailed information on query tuning and planning at link:{docs-home}/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/[Cypher manual -> Execution plans and query tuning].
```

== Keep learning

> Most of the refactoring that you can keep doing on your model is about repurposing or adding more information to your graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can keep refactoring your model and graph.
You can repurpose and/or add more information to it.
```

[source,cypher]
--
MERGE (p:ProductionCompany {name:'Imagine Entertainment', country:'US', postalCode:90212, state:'CA', city:'Beverly Hills', address1:'10351 Santa Monica Blvd'})-[:PRODUCED]->(m:Movie {title:'Apollo 13'})
MERGE (:ProductionCompany {name:'Jersey Films', country:'US', postalCode:90049, state:'CA', city:'Los Angeles', address1:'10351 Santa Monica Blvd'})-[:PRODUCED]->(:Movie {title:'Hoffa'})
--

image::producers.svg[Graph connecting the movies Apollo 13 and Hoffa to new production company nodes,400,400,role=popup]

However, storing complex data on nodes this way may not be beneficial for different reasons, including:

* *Duplicate data*: There may exist several production companies in the same location, and the same information is then repeated on multiple nodes.
** Example: In the xref:#_answering_remaining_or_new_use_cases[previous step], you refactored the property 'languages' to become a node to avoid having the entry "English" duplicated on all `Movie` nodes.
* *Over-fetching*: Queries related to the information on the nodes require that more nodes in a category be retrieved unnecessarily.

> ** Example: If you want to return production companies that are located in California, all the properties of the `ProductionCompany` nodes need to be scanned to retrieve the property value `California` from the `state` key.

Reviewer: unless there is an index on the state property

*The goal in data modeling is to reduce the size of the graph that is touched by a query.*
If the graph contains a large amount of duplicate data or if your queries still over-fetch data, you may need to refactor your model again.

In the current model, you have added more information in the form of a new node label `ProductionCompany` with a number of address properties. 
The property values contain a lot of duplicate data, which is not desirable.
To make the model more efficient, check for duplicate key values and see if you can turn them into another entity, like a node or a relationship.

In this case, both production companies are based in California, so the state could be turned into a node for `State` and be connected to the producer companies via a new relationship `LOCATED_AT`:

image::california.svg[The producer company nodes now have one less property for state and connect to a state node for California, role=popup]

After this refactoring, queries that retrieve production companies by their state can now be filtered based on the `State.name` value, rather than evaluating all `ProductionCompany` nodes for the `ProductionCompany.state` property.

> How you refactor your graph to handle complex data depends on the performance of the queries when your graph scales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How you refactor your graph to handle complex data depends on the questions you'd like to answer and the performance of the queries when your graph scales.
```

for example, if one wanted to find companies by city, it would be valuable to have city nodes as first class citizens

[source,cypher]
--
MERGE (p:ProductionCompany {name:'Imagine Entertainment', country:'US', postalCode:90212, state:'CA', city:'Beverly Hills', address1:'10351 Santa Monica Blvd'})-[:PRODUCED]->(m:Movie {title:'Apollo 13'})

> MERGE (:ProductionCompany {name:'Jersey Films', country:'US', postalCode:90049, state:'CA', city:'Los Angeles', address1:'10351 Santa Monica Blvd'})-[:PRODUCED]->(:Movie {title:'Hoffa'})

Reviewer: looks like the `Jersey Films` data has been forgotten here
```
CREATE (jerseyFilms:ProductionCompany {name:'Jersey Films', country:'US', postalCode:90049, state:'CA', city:'Los Angeles', address1:'10351 Santa Monica Blvd'})
MERGE (hoffa:Movie {title:'Hoffa'})
CREATE (jerseyFilms)-[:PRODUCED]->(hoffa)
```
